OK.
So next we're going to focus on our create route.
It's a POST request to slash API slash to do the same path as our index that lists all the tatoos.
But it's a post.
So we'll send Jason data containing pretty much the only thing we actually need to send is the actual
name of that to walk the dog feed the cat whatever that is because the date in the status or the completion
status are automatically added by default.
So let's go ahead and hop over here to our dues jast file and we're going to define a router dot post
slash.
And remember it's the same router I get slash in that they're actually all prefixed by sosh API slash
to do.
So when a post requests comes in we'll do our function request response.
And then in here why don't we just respond for now.
RAZ It just lets you arrest us send this is the post-draft and just test it out make sure it's working.
We're going to restart the server.
And we have no way of requesting it right now.
We could write an AJAX call but I'm actually going to use a tool called postman.
I showed it briefly.
I highly recommend you install it.
It's free for Mac Windows and Linux.
So just download whichever one is appropriate for you and it allows you to make requests and debug things
work with API.
Basically get a full picture of what's happening with every request and it has a really nice UI.
So I have it open here.
Make it a bit larger so you can see it.
And our interface is pretty basic.
I select get or post.
And then you are l.
So I'm going to copy my cloud 9 you or else so I don't have to type that whole thing.
And if I send a get request.
We've already established this.
I get an empty array back.
Perfect.
So what if I change it to a post request.
I hit send and we get the post-draft.
So that's working just fine.
But now what we want to do is actually send some data along with our post and then take that data and
inserted into the database.
And the way we do that with postman is underbody we can go and add in our data.
So we would have name is equal to feed the fish for example.
And if I send this right now there's not going to be a problem but that's because we're not doing anything
with the data.
As you can see we just get this is the post-draft we're sending it away.
Nothing happens with it.
So back in cloud 9 let's handle that data that's coming in.
So if we worked with the express before you'll know that we actually don't have access to it automatically.
It would be nice if we did but in order to access that data we have to use a tool package that's called
Body parser.
So I'm going to get this over with as quickly as I can.
We're going to NPM install dash dash save body dash parser and this used to come with Express but they
broke it out into a separate thing basically it takes in the body which is a string and it's going to
parse it and turned it into an object for us to use.
So we're going to do is come over here and require it at the top.
So it will have we require.
So we'll have body parser equals body dash parser.
And unfortunately that's not enough.
We then need to tell our application to use by the parser.
So I'm going to do that here.
What do you use body parts are dot J song.
And there's actually one more we need which is apt use body parts or dot you are and coded extended
troop.
So these two lines without going into too much detail are going to allow us to access the request body
that comes in in a put request or a post request.
So over here I'll be able to access request body right now if I tried to do that.
It's empty.
So let's actually just do this now let's do a console that log request body.
So this wreck object our queue up body body parser is giving us the ability to now reference it.
Let's test it out.
We don't want to install it again.
There you go.
Start at the server.
Now if I go to postman and I send a request let's let's do watch Game of Thrones send notice that it's
hung up.
We're not getting response and that's because we're never responding with anything but you can see our
body has been parsed correctly.
It's an object now Name watch Game of Thrones.
So this is perfect because all we need to do now is take whatever's in the request body and insert it
into our database so that mongoose method we want is going to be D-B to do just like appear but rather
than find you want create.
And then we need to pass in data and object.
So it looks something like this name is equal to feed fish but that's exactly what our request body
looks like.
Request body.
OK.
So DVD to do does create request up body.
And then after that we do our DOT then.
So if it worked we'll have access to the new to do.
So let's call it new to do.
And if there's a problem we'll have access to the error.
And let's just do a rest send error.
So the standard way of handling this is that we respond back with the newly created to do.
And you might think that's silly because the user just created or somebody just sent a request to create
it to do.
But it's important to know that it worked.
And also remember things like the date the status and ID are going to be generated by Mongo.
So we want those to come back.
So we have access to them and see why that's important things like the idea in particular we need to
have that come back from our API.
So we'll just do arrays that Jason knew to do.
So let's test it out.
Are things working well restart our server and then we'll go over to post man and here we're going to
send the same request in our body.
Same same name is now equal to buy bread not being very creative and we'll hit send.
So slash API slash to do.
What if we get back.
Awesome.
Take a look at that.
So we actually get the newly created to Dubuc So it has the name that we inserted.
It has a look at it the space before that.
So we have space by bread.
We have the generated ID the date that was generated as well based off of date done now and completed
is set to false.
So thats working perfectly exactly how it should and because we have mongoose debug mode set to true.
You can actually see the code that was generated here.
One small change we could make is also respond with the status code of 201 which is 2 1 is created.
So it just is more explicit something was created.
We can change together so send this to a one status code and then send the Jasen of the new to do.
And if we do that now take a look at postman for our previous request where if we look at the headers
it was is the status quo.
We got 200.
OK.
Now if we do it and let's make something slightly different thats by cheese we get to 1 created as our
status.
Okay.
So the last thing I want to point out is what happens if we try and send other data like lets say mood
and mood is going to be happy.
So just something that isn't actually in our schema.
So we said that if we look at our body that comes back.
Everything is fine.
So it doesn't actually try and insert that because it's not part of our schema.
So Mongo just doesn't care about it.
Okay.
So back in cloud 9 that's all we need to do for our post to create a need to do this file is you can
see it's already getting kind of long and we have three other wraps to define.
So later on we will be refactoring this pulling all this code out into separate functions so that we
have really clean little routes.
But for now we'll leave it as this.